nbis
====

Fork of NIST Biometric Image Software for building and packaging on 
Linux. Upstream sources are public domain, but modifications are 
Apache-licensed.

Highlights from NBIS are:
* Fingerprint image quality assessment program (trainable)
* Fingerprint minutiae extraction program
* Fingerprint minutiae matching program
* Fingerprint Level-1 classification program (trainable)

The master branch of this repository is maintained as the code for building
packages for Debian unstable. Binary releases are available from an Ubuntu 
PPA at https://launchpad.net/~mchaberski/+archive/ppa.

The changes that were made to prepare the upstream sources for building 
as a Debian package include (but are not limited to) the following:
* the removal of imaging library source code (in favor of using imaging 
library packages in the Debian repositories);
* inclusion of static `make` rules files that were previously generated 
by a custom shell script;
* removal of obsolete files used in the upstream build system; and 
* modifications to source code to resolve runtime data in a manner that
follows conventions on Debian systems (such as reading 
architecture-independent runtime data from a system directory like 
`/usr/share/nbis`).


A more lengthy description of the contents of the NBIS distribution is below,
adapted from the [NBIS home page](http://www.nist.gov/itl/iad/ig/nbis.cfm):

> The NIST Biometric Image Software (NBIS) distribution is developed by 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Department of Homeland 
Security (DHS). The NBIS distribution contains programs for biometrics
processing and analysis. 

> The NBIS utilities included in this distribution fall under these 
general categories: 

> * A fingerprint segmentation algorithm, NFSEG, segments a
four-finger plain impression into individual fingerprint images or 
can be used to remove white space from a rolled fingerprint image.
* A neural-network based fingerprint pattern classification system, 
called PCASYS, automatically categorizes a fingerprint image into the 
class of arch, left or right loop, scar, tented arch, or whorl. This 
is an updated system that includes the use of a robust Multi-Layered 
Perceptron (MLP) neural network.
* A minutiae detector, MINDTCT, automatically locates and 
records ridge ending and bifurcations in a fingerprint image. This 
system includes minutiae quality assessment based on local image 
conditions. 
* A minutiae-based fingerprint matching algorithm, BOZORTH3, that
accepts as input minutiae locations generated by the MINDTCT 
algorithm.
* A fingerprint image quality algorithm, NFIQ, analyzes a 
fingerprint image and assigns a quality value of 1 (highest quality) 
to 5 (lowest quality) to the image. The ability to retrain the NFIQ 
weights is provided with the utilities FING2PAT, ZNORMDAT, and 
ZNORMPAT.
* A reference implementation of the ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 (AN2K) 
"Data Format for the Interchange of Fingerprint, Facial, Scar Mark & 
Tattoo (SMT) Information" standard is included. This reference 
implementation contains a suite of utilities designed to read, write, 
edit, and manipulate files formatted according to this interchange 
standard. The utilities support updated and new record types 
introduced by this latest version of the standard (Record Types 9, 
13, 14, & 15).
* A large collection of general-purpose image utilities 
are also included to support the processing of fingerprint images. The 
package includes encoders and decoders for the FBI's Wavelet Scalar 
Quantization (WSQ) format. Utilities are also provided that support 
color component interleaving, colorspace conversion, and format 
conversion of legacy files distributed in NIST fingerprint databases.

As a consequence of prioritizing making the core utilities buildable 
first, the SIVV utility (spectral validation/verification metric 
for fingerprint images) is not included in packages built from this
repository.
